>> Evgenii: Now let's talk about the API.
So our application is
expected actually probably
the let's first talk about the state.
So our application is expected
to work on the mobile devices.
And we need to make sure that
we use optimize stay structure.
So let's think about what are the
properties we can store in the state.
So first of all, I will store the stories.
>> Evgenii: And I would apply
the normalization, the first and
the second normal form,
to optimize the story.
So my story can be accessed
by id of the string.
And each story will contain the text
content, which is string.
And it also will have an id
which is also type id.
As you can see,
we don't have any content in
this story entity related to the comments.
So this means that we need to have
one more field called comments.
And here, we'll use the story id to
give us an array of the comments, and
also we'll store the attachments array.
So we can access all the images
attachment that we're
planning to utilize by the store id.
Okay, this is the attachment array.
So the attachment is pretty
simple since we're just
using the images we can
use the simple URL for
that
>> Evgenii: And that should be it.
So now we have this state,
let's look what are the API
methods that we can use for
loading the story data.
So let's create a new section called API.
>> Evgenii: And if we think about the API,
then we actually need
just a single endpoint
which will getstories.
And now we need to decide, decide
how we're going to load the stories.
So first of all, we could potentially.
>> Speaker 1: Sorry,
there's a bunch of questions, but
maybe you want to get through this
section before we take questions or.
>> Evgenii: I think we can
start with the questions now.
>> Speaker 1: Candidates said I would
use react window for virtualization.
What would you say to that?
>> Evgenii: I think it
depends on your company.
Because some companies actually prefer
candidates to use some modern frameworks
how they will resolve that problem
with using the modern frameworks.
But on average, I think the idea of
system design interview is actually,
or evaluate the fundamentals knowledge.
So if I would be evaluating
the fundamentals knowledge,
I would ask the candidate to
be kind of framework agnostic.
So we have just a Vanilla API, so
what would you do with the Vanilla API?
Maybe I'm the company and
I want to develop my libraries,
and what would you do?
Yep.
>> Speaker 1: And in this state,
where do you keep the chronological
order of the stories?
Is it a list of story ids?
>> Evgenii: Because the story they come.
So usually you expect that
this list will be connected to
some global state, and
we define this global state here,
so we can always provide the stories
in a sorted order to the virtual list.
So virtual lists can manage
actually the array of
the data because it renders the array.
Because we're rendering a very
limited subset of the data,
we can basically extract the ids
that we are going to render from
the global state and
then sort it out by the timestamp.
So the thing is that the story right now
doesn't have a timestamp, so it's very,
very good suggestions.
So we also need to have the time
when the story was posted.
>> Speaker 1: When
describing data structures,
how do you know when you've
gotten too deep into the weeds?
For instance, if you're in this case,
you could be debating
whether to use a JavaScript object or
a map, or sets and that kind of things.
>> Evgenii: I think, the map is
actually the same as JavaScript object.
It's just the very fancy wrapper
around the JavaScript object.
I don't think that you will have
a discussion about the differences,
to be honest.
So I don't think it's very important for
this specific design to discuss the
difference between the object and the map.
Yeah, I would not focus on that too much.
>> Evgenii: Okay, so let's continue.
So we design our state, we have the
stories, the comment, and the attachment.
Now we need to understand how
we want to load our stories.
And there are,
as we discussed in the workshop,
there are three ways how can we do that.
So the first one is we
can use sharp pulling.
>> Evgenii: Second thing,
we could potentially use web sockets and
the third thing is service and events.
So if we try to compare all of this, yep.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry can I ask a question?
So earlier during the workshop, one of the
things he talked about was long polling.
How would you differentiate between what's
considered short polling versus long
polling?
>> Evgenii: Okay, so the short
polling is usually has the timeframe
around 5 seconds is basically
the short pulling you keep
your TCP socket open because
the time passed from the from
previous request is not enough
to close this by default.
You can also instruct the server
to keep the connection alive but
it's not very efficient from
the client bearer perspective.
So long polling,
you always initiate a new full request, so
you will set the full metadata.
And usually the timeframe is around 20 or
30 seconds.
So if we compare this
method specifically for
the fetching purposes, so
the short polling will definitely work.
So it's very simple, it utilizes the HTTP
protocol, it's very simple to implement.
But the issue with the short polling,
because it keeps your TCP connections,
so TCP socket open, this means that
we're having additional battery drain.
So let's use the minus here, battery,
>> Evgenii: Drain.
>> Evgenii: Then it's not very efficient.
>> Evgenii: The huge pro
is that it's very simple.
But the issue is that you
may have the latency.
And the latency comes from establishing
the full connection again,
when you do the reconnection
then also you pay additional
cost on implementing the infrastructure
to how to handle the reconnections.
So you may expect that the latency
will decrease, especially when,
you're on the fast train or when you
need to reconnect to a network towers.
The problem also with the short polling
is because we are focusing on the mobile
devices a lot, and
the short polling will utilize the duplex
antenna of the mobile device so
it will drain the energy again.
So here we can put two minuses.
[LAUGH] Yeah, so
let's go to the WebSockets.
So the WebSockets provides us
with a real time communication.
So it's super fast.
But do we need real time
communication to fetch the stories?
I don't think so.
So it has the very huge
infrastructure cost.
It's very hard to implement in a good way.
So I guess we can just remove the web
sockets from the consideration completely.
So let's consider the service side events.
So if we speak about server side events,
let's list the pros of
the server side events.
So first of all,
they're very, very efficient.
And they also have a very comparable
performance to the WebSockets.
They are slower, but
still they're pretty fast.
Also, because they utilize
the mono antenna of the device,
we can expect that the energy
drain will be much less.
And also, the service side events
are based on HTTP2 protocol.
This means that HTTP2 will be
able to establish us the much
better performance because
within one TCP connection we can
establish hundreds of parallel
requests being loaded.
Basically our application will be able to
utilize just a single TCP connection for
every request.
So I think the service events in
this case, we can actually use
the combination of the service
side events plus the simple GET
request because if you scroll down,
you don't wanna wait for
the server to give you the result
from service end events.
So we can just create a new,
simple HTTP request via the GET and
get the data.
So the answer will be the combination
of the GET request plus
service end events.
And if we think about the parameters
that they get, stories can accept.
So the first thing is the API
token to access the server API.
The second one is the limit.
So we need to distinguish the,
we need to know the limit,
how many elements we want
to load from the server.
So because, for instance,
for the for large screens,
we'll be able to load
more items on the screen.
For smaller devices, such as mobile,
we may limit this to just five or
four elements.
So this third parameter
will be the previous page.
So the previous page pointer will
tell the server to load the data from
specific place.
So if we're returning, so
we floated some stories then we
closed our application and
then we open it again.
So we want to load the stories exactly
from the place where it stopped.
So we'll be able to
utilize the previous page.
If, for instance, this is our first
time we're loading the stories,
then we'll just load the stories that are
relevant to us with the current time step.